+++
title = "Lark Now"
description = "This is my [Now Page](https://nownownow.com/about). Here's what I'm up to right now."
template = "article.html"
date = 2024-10-10
updated = 2025-02-20
+++

I've been doing a lot of work on [Ace Archive](https://acearchive.lgbt/), an
online archive of asexual and aromantic history that I've been running for the
past few years. Currently I'm trying to catch up on my backlog of backend and
infrastructure improvements I want to make to the site.

I'm also trying to connect with other folks doing digital archiving work; I've
been doing this work largely in isolation for the past few years, and I want to
change that.

I'm going to my first kink con in March! My polycule and a few friends will also
be there; I'm very excited.

I've had a concept bouncing around in my head for a while for a pen-and-paper
puzzle game. I'm finally starting to work on it, although I suspect it might
take some time--making puzzles takes a lot of brain juice.

Some furries in my community are organizing to try and [create a furry-run co-op
art studio and makerspace](@/log/furry-art-space.md). I'm not deeply involved in
the project, but I'm excited to see where it goes and contribute where I can. I
have plans for some events I would like to host at some point, to try and build
community and maintain interest in the project.

My friends have pulled me onto a project of theirs: Building a smart DIY sex
toy. Between them, they have all the expertise they need--except for someone to
write the firmware. I've been meaning to get into embedded development for a
while, and this project has been a great opportunity to do so. I'm building the
device on the ESP32 platform, and you can find the source repo
[here](https://github.com/justlark/squirtinator).
