+++
title = "My theme for 2025: Getting involved"
description = "Every calendar year, rather than make resolutions, I choose a *theme*. Here's how my theme for 2024 turned out, and here's what I'm planning for 2025."
date = 2024-12-20

[taxonomies]
tags = ["community"]

[extra]
uuid = "ae8163f0-4cf3-47b8-86f5-657c2919e8a2"
+++

Every new year, I designate a theme for the coming calendar year. Different from
a resolution--rather than prescribe specific goals--it provides a framework to
influence the decisions I make over the course of the coming year.

My theme for 2024 was "Say yes to things". The goal was to get myself out of my
comfort zone and try things I might not otherwise try, even if my anxiety would
typically steer me away from them.

Someone invited me to a concert last-minute? Or on a trip with few concrete
details? Or to an event I don't know if I'll enjoy? Or to a party where I don't
know anyone? Or to a new social situation I don't have a script for? My anxiety
would typically steer me away from saying yes to these kinds of invitations, but
since it's my Year of Saying Yes to Things, I guess I'll go anyways.

This year's theme was a huge success. Most of the things I said yes to (and
might otherwise have said no to) turned out to be good experiences, and many of
them even cherished memories. I got to have a lot of experiences I might not
have had otherwise, and I think this experiment has been good for me in lasting
ways; navigating new and unfamiliar situations helps me build up a library of
scripts for those situations, which reduces my anxiety considerably the next
time I find myself in a similar one.

My theme for 2025 is "Getting involved". Taking the success of 2024 a step
further, I want to push myself to get more involved in the communities that I'm
a part of. Whether that's getting more involved with activist groups, helping to
build a [furry art space in Somerville](https://anthroville.studio/),
contributing to more open-source projects, civic engagement, or something else I
haven't thought of yet, I'm tired of being siloed in the work that I do. I want
to be part of something larger than the solo projects I usually occupy myself
with. I want to make a difference.

If you're reading this, leave a comment letting me know what your theme for 2025
is. This isn't YouTube--I'm not getting points for engagement--I genuinely want
to know!
