+++
title = "Web feeds: An antidote to doomscrolling"
description = """Why is nobody using web feeds anymore? You don't need to let
corporations' massive machine learning models control your mental health--we've
had the technology to fix this for over two decades."""
date = 2024-10-17

[taxonomies]
tags = ["tech", "smallweb"]

[extra]
uuid = "c7ca24b6-47c3-41aa-8b92-88539fffa13a"
+++

Web feeds, commonly known as RSS feeds[^1], are a mechanism for subscribing to
news sites, blogs, podcasts, social media posts, and really anything else on the
web.

Most blogging engines automatically generate a web feed. Most news sites have
web feeds. Social media posts on [Mastodon](https://joinmastodon.org/) have web
feeds. The US government has a [collection of
feeds](https://www.govinfo.gov/feeds) for everything from congressional bills to
court decisions.

You install an app on your phone or computer, pick which feeds you want to
subscribe to, and they appear in your own personal timeline.

It's a simple system that has incredible power for putting you back in control
of your mental health.

We're used to massive machine learning models curating our feeds for us,
deciding what media we consume. And this concept is sold to us under the premise
that these feeds are "personalized"--relevant to our interests.

What we often forget is the incentives at play. Companies make money when we
engage with their platforms, and so they are incentivized to monopolize our
attention by any means necessary. This causes tragic, inflammatory, and
polarizing content to bubble up to the top, which affects not just our health as
individuals, but the cohesion and strength of our communities.

Shortly after coming out as trans, my news feed was inundated with transphobic
content, assaulting me with news of oppressive policy decisions and violence
around the country and around the world. This was happening during a vulnerable
period in my transition, when I was trying to figure out what my future would
look like. And it gave me anxiety about the world I was coming into.

This prompted me to step away from algorithmic news feeds and focus on the news
I actually want to consume--the news that isn't detrimental to my health--and
web feeds were the solution to that.

Feed readers let you subscribe to the content you want to see. Many let you set
up custom feeds aggregating multiple news sources. Some even let you set up
keyword filters to block out content you don't want to see or notify you for
content you do. There are a number of open-source and proprietary feed readers
for desktop and mobile.

Seeing exactly the content you've subscribed to shouldn't be a radical concept.
Web feeds are an open standard; anyone can publish them, and anyone can
subscribe to them, and corporations can't take that away from you.

[^1]: Technically, RSS is one of several web feed formats, but it's been
    genericized as a term for web feeds generally. This site has an
    [Atom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atom_(web_standard)) feed instead,
    which is a more modern alternative. If you're making a website, you should
    probably use Atom instead of RSS.
