+++
title = "Cuttle: A combat card game"
description = "I recently learned of a somewhat obscure card game called Cuttle, which is a lot like Magic: The Gathering, but played with a standard 52-card deck."
date = 2025-01-14

[taxonomies]
tags = ["games"]

[extra]
uuid = "92f6a02e-7006-498f-8147-b1b3264b5d3e"
+++

I've always struggled with card games and board games. I have somewhat slow
processing and poor working memory, so keeping the game state and rules in my
head is challenging, and it ends up slowing the game down for the other players,
which can be frustrating for them.

I suspect learning games on my own ahead of time might be easier for me, so I'm
not trying to learn a new game on the spot while feeling time pressure from
folks who just want to get started. I'm also wondering if it might be easier to
choose games my friends don't already know how to play and teaching them, so I'm
not slowing them down while I get used to the rules.

I recently discovered a somewhat obscure card game called Cuttle, which is a lot
like Magic: The Gathering, but played with a standard 52-card deck. That really
appeals to me, partly because I've always wanted to play Magic, but discovered
the complexity of the rules is a barrier for me, and partly because I don't need
to participate in the deck-building aspect of the game.

One major problem I have with learning new games is how the rulebooks are
written. I often struggle to get the bigger picture--understanding the goal of
the game, what a turn looks like, etc. So I decided to write [my own
rulebook](https://github.com/justlark/cuttle/blob/main/rules.md), along with a
[cheatsheet](https://github.com/justlark/cuttle/blob/main/cheatsheet.md) to
reference during the game. It follows the standard rules, but is written in a
way that's more compatible with my brain, and I'm hoping with be helpful to
others as well.

I'm really excited to try this game out with my friends. I've always felt left
out not being able to participate in tabletop games, so I think this might be
good for me.
