+++
title = "*Empire of Normality*: A review"
description = "I recently read *Empire of Normality* by Robert Chapman, a history of how we conceptualize neurodiversity, an indictment of capitalism's role in pathologizing difference, and an argument that neurodivergent liberation is impossible under capitalism. Here's my review."
date = 2024-10-22

[taxonomies]
tags = ["neurodiversity"]

[extra]
uuid = "eb6e733f-8915-4bc7-92a9-0c67e8a7ae92"
+++

## Summary

The book opens by explaining that traditionally, across cultures, mental and
bodily health were conceptualized as a matter of balance or equilibrium rather
than a pathology of specific disorders to be cured.

However, with the Industrial Revolution came the idea that the body can be
conceptualized as a machine that is either "working" or "broken". Health was
assessed in terms of productivity, and productivity was assessed in terms of
production output. This body-as-a-machine paradigm benefited white, nondisabled,
middle-class people by justifying and reifying the hierarchies imposed by
colonialism and imperialism.

Today, we assess health in terms of deviation from a statistical mean, with
bands of deviation that we consider "healthy". Historically, however, this was
not the case. This concept of an "ideal man" based in systematically ranking
people only came with the Industrial Revolution and its propensity to value some
bodies and minds over others.

Karl Marx's theory of alienation argues that capitalism and the specialization
of labor deprive workers of independent thought the ability to self-direct.
Chapman argues that while this theory was originally proposed in the context of
manufacturing work in a primarily industrial economy, the concept still applies
to post-industrial economies where physical labor is replaced with cognitive and
emotional labor.

Rather than some sort of disease or chemical imbalance, it is *capitalism* which
disables us by holding us to impossibly stringent standards of
functioning--narrowing the requirements for what is required to thrive in
society. As the social model of disability posits that it is society's inability
to accommodate difference that disables us, Chapman argues that capitalism
creates a world tailored to the needs and abilities of a small subset of
bodyminds.

While there have been recent pushes to accommodate the differences and recognize
the abilities of neurodivergent people in the workplace, these only serve to
mine neurodivergent people as an untapped source of productivity. Chapman's
central thesis in *Empire of Normality* is that we won't see *true*
neurodivergent liberation until we fully dismantle capitalism.

## Review

The ideas presented in this book are solid and well-argued, but potentially
difficult to follow without some familiarity with the basic concepts of
disability justice and the neurodiversity movement. I think this book may have
benefited from a more accessible introduction to these concepts, building up to
its more complex ideas. I think a dense text written in academic prose is
somewhat at odds with the spirit of accommodating a broad spectrum of cognitive
styles and abilities.

I also think the book's focus on recounting a comprehensive history may have
done it a disservice. Not having much of background in philosophy or
socioeconomic theory, I struggled to follow the volley of names of people and
theories and ideologies--flipping back and forth between chapters before giving
up and glossing over them.

All that being said, this book is well worth the read for anyone interested in
disability justice and neurodiversity theory. Much of the field has not kept up
with the pace of neurodivergent-led theory and activism, whereas *Empire of
Normality* is refreshingly contemporary, relevant, and nuanced. It's also a
relatively short text, which offsets its density.

While the book's arguments are nuanced, it does not vacillate in its
convictions. Chapman does not back down from their central thesis:
neurodivergent liberation is impossible under capitalism.
